all
right I'm back I'm back from Australia
all the way from Down Under And I did
bring exactly one souvenir with me but I
flew in this morning cuz Apple said they
were going to announce some stuff and
they did there was an event today so
here's my first impressions so we got
the iPhone 16 and 16 Pro today along
with new airpods and Apple watch and
I've got some handson and some first
impressions for you of all that stuff
right here so so let's just start with
the new phones we knew this was coming
right a very very minor incremental
overall update but somehow Apple's still
got to try to get people to buy it so
what will they do so iPhone 16 looks
very much like iPhone 15 but there's
some new colors as you can pretty much
always count on this year it's
ultramarine which is kind of this Indigo
pretty sick teal pink black and white
and the cameras instead of being
diagonally oriented are now lined up
again next to each other like it was
back in the iPhone 10 days but it's not
just a retro touch that's also so it can
shoot spatial videos and pictures now so
the sensors are aligned with each other
again but then everything else the
rounded Corners the size of the regular
phone and the plus phone the speakers
the antenna lines everything just
basically the same not much new going on
here inside they bumped it up from the
a16 bionic to a new a18 so there's some
solid performance improvements in the 20
to 30% range better Ray tracing and a
two times faster neural engine and 8
gigs of RAM for all that Apple
intelligence stuff really the most
underrated new hardware to me though
that they talked about is Apple briefly
mentioned that these new phones will all
have larger batteries and so that seems
to imply that it will actually have
better battery life but also at no point
did Apple ever say any numbers not a
single number was uttered during the
battery section no graphs or anything
like that so we don't know exactly how
much bigger this new battery actually is
and the only numbers we've been able to
find is if you look on Apple's compare
page for the phones it said the iPhone
15 would get a battery life of 20 hours
of video playback and this new 16 gets
22 so I'm going to be putting these
through the paces you already know if
you want to get subscribed to be among
the first to see the full review that's
when we'll be able to figure out if it's
actually a significant Improvement in
battery in other ways but as of right
now better battery sure and then I never
thought I'd say this sentence again but
this new iPhone has two new buttons so
first of all it gets the action button
from last year's Pro so now you can do
the exact same customized shortcuts from
a flashlight or Shazam to a series
shortcut or whatever you want and then
there's also another new button called
camera control and this second button
it's kind of it's a touch sensitive
cutout covered in Sapphire with a taptic
engine behind it now it does actually
move it is an actual button just to be
clear but just like the trackpad on a
lot of modern laptops the vibration
motor clicks to also make a half press
feel like you're clicking a two-stage
button like a camera shutter button and
it is also very convincing so the magic
of this camera control area is what
they're calling it is that it is
pressure sensitive and it's basically a
tiny trackpad on the corner of the phone
it's it's capacitive sensitive so you
can swipe and do gestures along the
corner of the phone and so Apple's
decided everything that this button will
do will be camera related so if you
press it from the lock screen it opens
the camera app and then when you're in
you can click it again to take a photo
or long press to start taking a short
video but then you can do a little half
strength double tap to open up a menu
for different camera options and then
slide your finger along this camera
control to change them so you know it
takes some getting used to you got to
get used to the placement of your hand
and how fast you swipe but once you kind
of know what you're doing it feels
pretty smooth and it's pretty sensitive
and intuitive so this is all a bunch of
functionality that's being added
basically into Apple's camera app but
Apple's also said that thirdparty apps
that use the camera will also be able to
take advantage of the camera control so
Snapchat Instagram highight Etc they'll
be able to also use the slider so I
think it's pretty cool I think it's
technically very impressive I'm just
trying to figure out kind of similar to
the action button how useful it will
actually be like it is kind of in this
awkward spot on the bottom right of the
phone it makes sense as a horizontal
shutter button but they're kind of
splitting the difference trying to also
make it usable in a vertical Ori
orientation I just I'm curious how many
people actually use this regularly cuz
again it is on all the phones but yeah
that's about it for the 16 I mean the
display also does now drop down to one
nit minimum brightness so that's that's
great at night it is also still a 60 HZ
display on an $800 Flagship in 2024 so
that's really disappointing for me
personally but overall this phone is I'd
say it's still pretty tempting to say
that this base model is probably a
better buy for most most people over the
pro phones but let's just get into the
pro phones shall we new colors this year
desert titanium which goes alongside the
classic natural titanium and then a
slightly darker black and a slightly
whiter white but otherwise same design
again plus the new camera control and
the main updates with the pro are the
new screens and the new chip so the
phones actually get slightly bigger this
year so the screen sizes are up to 6.3
in on the pro and 6.9 in on the pro Max
thanks to the thinner bezels which I
didn't think I would notice but I'm
actually looking at them and they are a
little noticeably thinner so you can
kind of tell and inside there is also a
new chip as well it's the a18 pro so
this is the new highest end chip in any
iPhone and this again should have
performance boost and efficiency boost
over last year's Pro phone again in the
20 to 30% range so CPU and GPU improving
better rate tracing should still have
the faster USB 3 speeds that the pros
get uh but again the efficiency
improvements have them saying that the
pro Max will now be the longest battery
life ever in an iPhone by how much I
don't really know but that's that's good
to see but the camera is of course
always the highlight of the pro phones
and there are three new cameras on these
Pros versus last year so a new 48
megapixel main camera then a higher
resolution 48 megapixel ultrawide camera
from the 12 from last year and then the
smaller Pro also gets a 5x telephoto now
so the smaller Pro used to have a 3X but
now both Pros have matching all three
cameras it's also wireless charging a
little bit faster 25 watts so that'll
get you 50% in 30 minutes of charging
with the new mag safe charger nothing
too crazy and also 4K 120 FPS slow
motion straight out of the cameras now
and that's that's pretty sick I'm sure
the file sizes will be nuts from the
prores version of this but it gives you
really functional files that you can do
a lot with it also totally proves to me
that they could handle processing enough
to shoot 8K 3030 but they're just
choosing not to now there was a whole
lot of talk a whole long section of the
keynote where they constantly talked
about Apple
intelligence and I mean they have to
because it's a really big deal for them
but the thing is these phones will
launch with iOS 18 18.0 and that means
they will launch with no apple
intelligence features at all no gen
mooji no image playground no writing
tools nothing that shiny brand new
iPhone 16 that you take out the box in
September 2024 and start using in a
couple weeks will have the old Siri on
it now they'll start to come out bit by
bit with software updates so
18.1 has the new Siri and a bunch of
writing tools and some other stuff but
it's it's becoming harder and harder to
pair that stuff directly to this new
phone as a part of this upgrade I mean
if you've watched my videos before you
know about one of the golden rules which
is to never buy something based on the
promise of future software updates so
this feels like a big separation moment
for the iPhone at least to me where each
year of the new physical phone that you
buy is just a small Improvement it's
just a little bit faster chip a little
bit better screen slightly better
cameras but on the other side is this
rapidly improving ball of all this AI
stuff that is not launching on the phone
but that is the totally separate really
big reason to get the phone so yeah it
feels like I'm going to need to review
all of that stuff separately in its
entirety when it does finally come out
because it it comes out so separately
from the phone itself um anyway there
were also some other Apple announcements
today aside from just the iPhones and we
got new airpods and new watches so there
were lots of rumors about this huge
redesign with the Apple watch for the
10th year but now that we actually see
it Apple Watch series 10 is mostly
slightly new again now okay it is 10%
thinner and 10% lighter and that's nice
and it has a slightly larger display
again with thinner bezels and better
viewing angles plus a new S10 sip inside
that's it oh and of course you got to
throw some new colors as well so the
aluminum has silver or rose gold or this
new jet black finish which is a bit of a
shiny throwback and then they've dropped
stainless steel for titanium which now
comes in natural tit tanium gold colored
or slate colored so that's the redesign
again it is pretty minor uh I don't want
to downplay the amount of technical
engineering that goes into achieving
these things like clearly you still have
to combine the metal back plate and the
charger into one piece with the antennas
integrated to improve the thinness and
they're using what they're calling the
first wide angle OLED display to help
you see the screen from more angles
which actually does matter on a watch
but yeah I think if you were expecting
some crazy radical you know Square watch
or something nuts then yeah this is very
much still the classic Apple watch shape
there are some new watch faces since the
second hand now is always visible even
when always on display is gone dark so
that's cool there's also a new depth app
and a new tie Z which I think looks
really cool I don't even surf or have
any use for this app but it's just kind
of cool flipping through and seeing
exactly when sunrise and Sundown are and
high tide and low tide are every day if
you're near a coastline they also
introduced sleep apnea detection using
only the gyroscope this is another
coming soon feature it's like pending
FDA approval and Regulatory bodies
around the world to actually launch but
the fact that it only needs a gyroscope
to detect it I thought that was pretty
cool so those series 10 watches are
going to start at the same prices as
last year's series 10 watches and then
we also got a new Apple watch Ultra 2
and by new Apple watch Ultra 2 I mean a
satin black finish of the existing Apple
watch Ultra 2 and I am so into it I have
absolutely no real reason to upgrade but
this is just one of those things that
companies sometimes do they just make a
matte black version of something that I
totally don't need but suddenly they
have my shipping address and credit card
info and I just end up buying one I'm
told this is a pretty robust coding
process so hopefully it shouldn't chip
or scratch too easily and then maybe
show like light raw titanium underneath
but also it's an ultra watch so I think
someone's going to do it but then there
are also the new airpods the airpods
upgrades or upgrades one of them one of
them's a fake upgrade so the new base
airpods airpods 4 have been redesigned
and there's actually two versions so for
129 there's the new airpods 4 with the
new shape and then for
179 there's the same new airpods version
but you also get active noise
cancellation and a wireless charging
case with a tiny speaker built in for
find my so yeah this new shape it's a
little different so it may fit a little
better in some people's ears like mine
like the old ones or terrible for me but
these are a little better but that also
means they may be a little bit worse in
some people's ears but yeah to get I
think for under 200 bucks active noise
cancellation in airpods with a 4-Hour
battery life I think there'll be a nice
little Target demographic waiting for
that and then airpods Pro 2 didn't
really get a whole lot technically new
here but they also did get certified as
a clinical grade hearing aid which is
pretty awesome plus some other hearing
protection and testing features are
added as well but the biggest upgrade of
the day and by that I mean non upgrade
fake upgrade of the day goes to airpods
Max now keep in mind these headphones
came out originally in 2020 like we
reviewed these a long time ago these
were $550 when they launched and they're
still $550 in 2024 and they still have a
lightning port and they still don't have
an onoff button and they still have that
dumb case that they came with so they
finally get this update airpods Pro 2
and the update is five new colors and
they have a USBC Port now which okay
yeah they literally had a lightning port
in 2024 so we're happy to see that but
then that's it like there's not a single
other change to these new airpods they
still don't have an onoff button in 2024
they still have that stupid case they
came with like they got the feedback we
know this case isn't good they didn't
improve that at all they still have the
H1 chip even though all the other
airpods are on on the H2 chip now what
did the entire airpods Max team go into
a coma for 4 years and then wake up a
week before this announcement and
scramble to put this together this is
weird the sad part is I'm probably still
going to upgrade to them anyway because
I just I can't carry a lightning cable
around anymore and I keep forgetting it
and then they keep dying and I keep
needing a lightning cable and it's just
let me just stop having that headache
but yeah weird non- upgrade very
disappointing airpods Max but that's
basically it those are my announcement
thoughts and reactions and first
impressions and generally yeah not a ton
of major new stuff I think really the
two big highlights are one this
separation between the hardware upgrade
and all the software that's coming to
the hardware but not launching with it
and honestly two is is this camera
control thing this weird button that
they've added it's fascinating the fact
that they've added it to both the pro
and non-pro phones when I didn't think
they would that's interesting the fact
that case manufacturers are going to
have to deal with this now like some of
them are going to have a little cutout
for it but some of them may try to do
the same thing Apple did with like a
little capacitive glass thing over the
top of it to keep it flush that's
interesting the fact that it won't come
out with the two-stage shutter press in
the actual camera app until later this
year via a software update that's just
weird too there's just a lot of fun
weird stuff going on with the shutter
button but now that you've made it this
far let me know in the comment section
down below what you want to see in those
full reviews as you get subscribed to
see them and thanks to Anor for
sponsoring this video their latest mag
go lineup is out the six series and
there's a couple changes there's a new
Slimmer battery bank there's a battery
bank with an Apple Watch charger a stand
with a rotating click head and one of my
favorite items a 3in1 foldable charging
pad so the ankor Mago power bank is a
10,000 mAh battery that supports ch2 and
it's mag safe compatible it supports 15
W wireless charging and temperature
control so it keeps your device is
protected by keeping charging under 40
C all in this slim 15 mm body and then
the anchor Mago wireless charging
station this thing charges three devices
at once an iPhone airpods and your Apple
watch all at the same time it supports
ch25 wat fast charging and mag safe
charging for iPhones and it just folds
up into this compact little package fits
in your pocket and it can even fold the
other way to make it into a stand to
activate Apple standby mode while you
charge your phone so yeah check these
out at the link below and start charging
your devices faster but yeah that's been
it thanks for watching this impress
video and I'll catch you guys in the
next one soon peace
[Music]